---
name: Brasil Participativo
---
Brasil Participativo is the largest social participation platform ever launched by Brazil’s Federal Government, empowering citizens to help create and enhance public policies. Built as open-source software with support from Dataprev, the Decidim-Brasil community, the Ministry of Management and Innovation in Public Services (MGI), and the University of Brasília (UnB) through LAPPIS, this platform represents a significant step forward in inclusive governance.

A notable achievement was the Participatory Pluriannual Plan (PPA) in July 2023, which gathered more than 1.4 million proposals from citizens across the country. Building on this success, the Brasil Participativo team is now part of the OECD Gov2Gov Innovation Incubator with the challenge, “Voices Unheard: Inclusive Design Challenge”—exploring how to foster broader, more equitable digital participation in policy-making. Their goal is to develop an open-source solution that transcends geographical and social barriers, effectively engaging marginalized communities in shaping public policies.

The sheer volume and complexity of information generated by social participation platforms require advanced technological solutions for effective interpretation and use. Without a comprehensive analysis of these data, we miss valuable opportunities to create more impactful public policies.

Looking ahead to 2025, our mission is to develop machine learning models that can analyze the intersectional nature of proposals on these platforms, recognize individual user interests, and leverage segmented, LLM-based communication to boost user engagement across integrated communication channels. We welcome open-source enthusiasts to join our community and help shape the future of inclusive public policy.

 <a href="https://gitlab.com/lappis-unb/decidimbr/">Gitlab Organization</a>


 <a href="https://oecd-opsi.org/blog/gov2gov-challenge-brazil/">News on OCDE gov2gov challenge</a>
